[DOCS] Threat Intel Card uses Fleet TI integrations (#1455)
elastic/security-docs: docs/getting-started/threat-intel-integrations.asciidoc

[[es-threat-intel-integrations]]
= Enable threat intelligence integrations

The Threat Intelligence view gives you a streamlined way to collect threat intelligence data that you can use for threat detection and matching. You can connect to threat intelligence sources using an <<agent-ti-integration, {agent} integration>>, the <<ti-mod-integration, Threat Intel module>>, or a <<custom-ti-integration, custom integration>>.

> NOTE: The warning message about remaining threat intelligence sources is removed once you’ve enabled all available {elastic-sec} threat intelligence integrations.

Reviewer: Unclear what warning message this refers to. I think it's talking about the message shown int the screenshot, but the phrasing throws me off: the message is not really a *warning,* and it doesn't refer to "remaining sources," just disabled ones.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/threat-intelligence-view.png[width=90%][height=90%][Shows the Threat Intelligence view on the Overview page]

[float]
[[agent-ti-integration]]
== Enable an {agent} integration

To set up an {agent} integration:

> . Install a {fleet-guide}/install-fleet-managed-elastic-agent.html[{fleet} managed {agent}] on the servers you want to monitor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Install a {fleet-guide}/install-fleet-managed-elastic-agent.html[{fleet}-managed {agent}] on the servers you want to monitor.
```

. In the Threat Intelligence view, click *Enable sources*.
. Select an integration, and complete the installation steps.
. Return to the Threat Intelligence view on the Overview page. Refresh the page if indicator data isn't displaying.

[float]
[[ti-mod-integration]]
== Enable a Threat Intel module integration

To set up an integration through the Threat Intel module:

. Set up the {filebeat-ref}/filebeat-installation-configuration.html[{filebeat} agent] and enable the Threat Intel module.
+
NOTE: For more information about enabling available threat intelligence filesets, refer to {filebeat-ref}/filebeat-module-threatintel.html[Threat Intel module].

. Update the `securitySolution:defaultThreatIndex` <<update-threat-intel-indices, advanced setting>> by adding the appropriate index pattern name after the default {fleet} threat intelligence index pattern (`logs-ti*`):

> .. If you're using {filebeat} version 8.x _only_, add the appropriate {filebeat} threat intelligence index pattern, for example, `filebeat-8*` or `filebeat*`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. If you're _only_ using {filebeat} version 8.x, add the appropriate {filebeat} threat intelligence index pattern, for example, `filebeat-8*` or `filebeat*`.
```

.. If you're using a previous version of Filebeat _and_ a current one, differentiate between the threat intelligence indices by using unique index pattern names. For example, if you’re using {filebeat} version 7.0.0 and 8.0.0, add `filebeat-7*` and `filebeat-8*`.
. Return to the Threat Intelligence view on the Overview page. Refresh the page if indicator data isn't displaying.

[float]
[[custom-ti-integration]]
== Enable a custom integration

To enable a custom integration:

. Set up a way to <<ingest-data, ingest data>> into your system.

> . Update the `securitySolution:defaultThreatIndex` <<update-threat-intel-indices, advanced setting>> by adding the appropriate index pattern name after the default {fleet} threat intelligence index pattern (`logs-ti*`), for example, `custom-ti-index*`.

Reviewer: The example is a little confusing to me. If the user has to add something to the end of the default index pattern, which is `logs-ti*`, shouldn't the example _include_ that default pattern plus something else?

Author: Good point! I'll update these examples.

+

> NOTE: Threat intelligence indices aren’t required to be ECS compatible. However, we strongly recommend compatibility if you’d like for your alerts to be enriched with relevant threat indicator information. You can find a list of ECS compliant threat intelligence fields at {ecs-ref}/ecs-threat.html[Threat Fields].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: Threat intelligence indices aren’t required to be ECS compatible. However, we strongly recommend compatibility if you’d like for your alerts to be enriched with relevant threat indicator information. You can find a list of ECS-compliant threat intelligence fields at {ecs-ref}/ecs-threat.html[Threat Fields].
```

. Return to the Threat Intelligence view on the Overview page. Refresh the page if indicator data isn't displaying.
+

> NOTE: The Threat Intelligence view looks for a `threat.feed.name` field value to define the source name in the *Name* column. If a custom source doesn't have the `threat.feed.name` field, or hasn't defined a `threat.feed.name` field value, it's named *Other*. In addition, dashboards links are not typically not created for sources in the *Other* category unless a source has the `threat.feed.dashboard_id` field defined.

Reviewer: Also, "not typically created" seems kind of vague -- any way we can explain more precisely?
```suggestion
NOTE: The Threat Intelligence view searches for a `threat.feed.name` field value to define the source name in the *Name* column. If a custom source doesn't have the `threat.feed.name` field or hasn't defined a `threat.feed.name` field value, it's named *Other*. In addition, dashboards links are not typically created for sources in the *Other* category unless a source has the `threat.feed.dashboard_id` field defined.
```

[[es-threat-intel-integrations]]
= Enable threat intelligence integrations

> The Threat Intelligence view gives you a streamlined way to collect threat intelligence data that you can use for threat detection and matching. Threat intelligence data consists of threat indicators ingested from third-party threat intelligence sources.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Threat Intelligence view provides a streamlined way to collect threat intelligence data that you can use for threat detection and matching. Threat intelligence data consists of threat indicators ingested from third-party threat intelligence sources.
```

NOTE: To learn more about alerts with threat intelligence, visit <<view-alert-details, View alert details>>.

You can connect to threat intelligence sources using an <<agent-ti-integration, {agent} integration>>, the <<ti-mod-integration, Threat Intel module>>, or a <<custom-ti-integration, custom integration>>.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/threat-intelligence-view.png[width=90%][height=90%][Shows the Threat Intelligence view on the Overview page]

There are a few scenarios when data won't display in the Threat Intelligence view:

- If you've chosen a time range that doesn't contain threat indicator event data, you are prompted to choose a different range. Use the the date and time picker in the {security-app} or Kibana to select a new range to analyze.
- If the {agent} or {filebeat} agent hasn't ingested Threat Intel module data yet, the threat indicator event counts won't load. You can wait for data to be ingested or reach out to your administrator for help resolving this.

[float]
[[agent-ti-integration]]

> == Enable an {agent} integration

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
== Configure an {agent} integration
```

> To set up an {agent} integration:

Reviewer 3: You can omit this intro. 
```suggestion

```

> . Install a {fleet-guide}/install-fleet-managed-elastic-agent.html[{fleet}-managed {agent}] on the servers you want to monitor.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Install a {fleet-guide}/install-fleet-managed-elastic-agent.html[{fleet}-managed {agent}] on the hosts you want to monitor.
```

> . In the Threat Intelligence view, click *Enable sources*. Scroll down the Integration page and select *Elastic Agent only* so the view only shows {agent} integrations.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. In the Threat Intelligence view, click *Enable sources* to view the Integrations page. Scroll down and select *Elastic Agent only* to filter by {agent} integrations.
```

+
[TIP]
=========================
If you know the name of {agent} integration you want to install, you can search for it directly. You can use the following {agent} integrations with the Threat Intelligence view:

* AbuseCH
* AlienVault OTX
* Anomali
* Cybersixgill
* ThreatQuotient
* MISP

=========================

> . Select an {agent} integration, and complete the installation steps.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Select an {agent} integration, then complete the installation steps.
```

. Return to the Threat Intelligence view on the Overview page. Refresh the page if indicator data isn't displaying.
+
NOTE: The message about disabled threat intelligence sources disappears when you enable all available {elastic-sec} integrations.

[float]
[[ti-mod-integration]]
== Enable a {filebeat} Threat Intel module integration

To enable a {filebeat} Threat intel integration:

. Set up the {filebeat-ref}/filebeat-installation-configuration.html[{filebeat} agent] and enable the Threat Intel module.
+
NOTE: For more information about enabling available threat intelligence filesets, refer to {filebeat-ref}/filebeat-module-threatintel.html[Threat Intel module].

. Update the `securitySolution:defaultThreatIndex` <<update-threat-intel-indices, advanced setting>> by adding the appropriate index pattern name after the default {fleet} threat intelligence index pattern (`logs-ti*`):

> .. If you're _only_ using {filebeat} version 8.x, add the appropriate {filebeat} threat intelligence index pattern, for example, `logs-ti*`, `filebeat-8*`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. If you're _only_ using {filebeat} version 8.x, add the appropriate {filebeat} threat intelligence index pattern. For example, `logs-ti*`, `filebeat-8*`.
```

.. If you're using a previous version of Filebeat _and_ a current one, differentiate between the threat intelligence indices by using unique index pattern names. For example, if you’re using {filebeat} version 7.0.0 and 8.0.0, update the setting to `logs-ti*`,`filebeat-7*`,`filebeat-8*`.
. Return to the Threat Intelligence view on the Overview page. Refresh the page if indicator data isn't displaying.

[float]
[[custom-ti-integration]]

> == Enable a custom integration

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
== Configure a custom integration
```

> To enable a custom integration:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```

. Set up a way to <<ingest-data, ingest data>> into your system.
. Update the `securitySolution:defaultThreatIndex` <<update-threat-intel-indices, advanced setting>> by adding the appropriate index pattern name after the default {fleet} threat intelligence index pattern (`logs-ti*`), for example, `logs-ti*`,`custom-ti-index*`.
+

> NOTE: Threat intelligence indices aren’t required to be ECS compatible. However, we strongly recommend compatibility if you’d like for your alerts to be enriched with relevant threat indicator information. You can find a list of ECS-compliant threat intelligence fields at {ecs-ref}/ecs-threat.html[Threat Fields].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
NOTE: Threat intelligence indices aren’t required to be ECS compatible. However, we strongly recommend compatibility if you’d like your alerts to be enriched with relevant threat indicator information. You can find a list of ECS-compliant threat intelligence fields at {ecs-ref}/ecs-threat.html[Threat Fields].
```

. Return to the Threat Intelligence view on the Overview page. Refresh the page if indicator data isn't displaying.
+

> NOTE: The Threat Intelligence view searches for a `threat.feed.name` field value to define the source name in the *Name* column. If a custom source doesn't have the `threat.feed.name` field, or hasn't defined a `threat.feed.name` field value, it's considered unnamed and labeled as *Other*. Dashboards aren't created for unnamed sources unless the `threat.feed.dashboard_id` field is defined.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
NOTE: The Threat Intelligence view searches for a `threat.feed.name` field value to define the source name in the *Name* column. If a custom source doesn't have the `threat.feed.name` field or hasn't defined a `threat.feed.name` field value, it's considered unnamed and labeled as *Other*. Dashboards aren't created for unnamed sources unless the `threat.feed.dashboard_id` field is defined.
```
